# PROTECT THE CUBE
#### Video Demo:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xa7eAmSoczE
#### Description:
For my project I decided to make a game using Love 2D and Lua. The game is essentially a survival game where the user tries to keep their object, a square, alive by moving it around the screen, avoiding contact with the circles which would follow you

The game had multiple levels, starting at a score of 10, then 25, 40, 60, 75. At each of the score increments, an additional circle is added, moving significantly faster than the previous circles. making contact with anyone of the circles immediately ends the game and displays a message that you have lost the game. In order to relaunch game, you have to exit and restart the program

To explain the files, the first, main.lua, is the main lua file from which the structure of the game is created. This file decides the game states of running and ended, and handles most of what is seen on the screen, from the background image of a discord, the square cursor, and displaying the enemy circles. The main files also details how points are incremented and when the user has lost the game. At first I had debated going with a circular icon for the cursor, and what would be the object to protect, but later decided on the square since it would be more intuitive than simply using the same shape for both character, and enemy. Though this presented a few problems. Given that the point at which the cursor is placed is at the top left corner of the square, I had to adjust the placement of the square to be located at where the cursor was, but put of by half the diameter of the square, on both x and y axis. Additionally, this presented the challenge of how to code collision detection between a square and a circle. Ultimately I wasn't able to find a solution which would work fit within my code and decided to fall back on the distance formula, which was easier to implement and more accurate.

The next file in my code is Circles.lua. This file is specific to coding how the enemies, or the circles will move in accordance to how the player decides to move, as well as how to make the appeareance of the circles happen at random rather than preset locations. The logic for this was simple. To move the circle towards the players square, we would take the x and y coordinates of the circle and square and find the difference between both. After that we would determine the relative location of the square and circle based on whether the values were positive or negative, and from that we would increment the circle to move by a value of 1 every frame of the game. As more circles spawn, the speed of each increases, which was simply done by incrementing the distance moved in one frame by 1. To allow for randomness, I would use a random number generator between 1-4 to account for each side of the screen. Depending on which number, the location from which the circle would be created, which was offscreen, would change each time a new level had been reached. This files also sets the color and style that the circle entails.
